this is Neil
Patel helping you succeed through online
marketing so we're going to talk about
if blog posts are the best Su strategy
today I need to sneeze but I'm holding
it so let me show you this post from
LinkedIn so this guy Peter Kuda CEO of
datab box so he said this so the other
day an agency owner told me they were
going to wrap up their content
production for their own marketing from
four to eight articles per month this is
the exact advice I use to give in 2010
publish more blog post to get more
search traffic the problem it doesn't
work anymore Neil you want to read some
of these all right so instead of going
down all of these I would actually tell
you what I would do I do think writing
more content isn't a bad idea if you
have already really good SEO traffic if
you have no SEO traffic you're going to
have to write blog post too but I would
actually look at it a very different way
I would actually look at it based on
your Authority if you have low domain
Authority call it 20 30 40 even 50 which
isn't that high I would figure out what
free tools you can offer on your website
to naturally build links and you've seen
this you've done the analysis on this
Eric what are my most popular link pages
on my site Uber suggest yep Uber suggest
and all my other tools like answer the
public Uber says when you look at how
many links free tools get it blows out
of the water any type of content that
most people could ever write so and it
just continually builds links you Contin
get that residual effect without much
work with content you get links early on
uh or later if you're manually building
them but like it slows down for those
blog posts uh while tools you just keep
getting them and they keep generating
more and more traffic over time second
thing I would do is if you already have
domain Authority and you already have
traffic I would first focus on and we
had an episode on this a few days ago so
make sure you listen to it updating your
content and what we found is when you
focus on updating your content because
there's already enough content on most
topics on Google we found that you
generate way more traffic just keeping
your old content updated and fresh
because when someone does a search they
don't want to read something that's a
year old or five years old they want to
read something that's a week old two
weeks old and this is why Wikipedia
ranks for a lot of terms it's not that
it's a best source of content on animals
or presidents or whatnot there's
probably a website that has better
content on those subjects than Wikipedia
but what Wikipedia does well is they
keep their content fresh and up to date
so what we do is we'll go into Google
search console look at that page age
it's traffic compared to a year ago and
compared to three months ago and when we
do a comparison to either of those you
know date points if the traffic has gone
down for either of those date points we
update the content and make a fresh and
when I say update it we look at who's
ranking above us what do they have that
we're not including we look at that
subject and poke holes and figure out
all right what can we do to make that
content about that topic more fresh up
to dat better more valuable to users
does it need video does it need more
images how's the conversational tone uh
we look at literally every aspect to try
to improve the content and then of
course we do mix in new content as well
whether you have a low domain Authority
or a high domain Authority because
without content um you're just not going
to do as well and not every topic has
already been written about because
there's always new things in most
Industries um that you could be writing
on you know what's interesting this is
something I'm in the middle of debating
on right now it's to to bring back the
piece of our software that shows where
you're decaying traffic and just giving
it away for free because that's
something that that that that's helpful
right but like even rewinding back into
how I'm thinking about YouTube right now
the way we used to create videos for
YouTube probably worked really well five
six years ago this is why we got a lot
more views because the bar the quality
bar was a lot lower but the quality bar
has actually risen quite a bit more but
this also applies to SEO as well
everyone's writing blog post everyone's
doing the same stuff from 10 years ago
sure you can talk about trending news
yes absolutely that works we do that
with marketing School yes you can share
data you can share reports that's cool
but it's still not as linkable from like
an asset standpoint as a a free product
right like back in the day by the way
maybe 10 years ago everyone's talking
about infographics in fact Neil would
spend like $30,000 on an infographic and
it would get a ton of links right but
right now if he did it he'd be a dumbass
if he did it so no one cares for the
infographics like they're cool to
Lookout but you're not going to get a
ton of links like you used to how many
links do you think that those
infographics got on average I don't know
I I had a blog post I broke it down but
like some got like 20 30 50 some 100
some more the problem is when you look
at the link tools you'll start seeing
like a lot of junk links in there too
but if you actually look like how many
unique good sites link to you I would
say like 2030 at least per infographic I
mean look I'm I'm looking at Neil
patel.com ubersuggest right now so
referring domains is about close to
21,000 or so and you can certainly go
look at the quality of links but at the
end of the day it's it's something that
provides utility um we's got links from
Google Adobe GitHub Shopify Wix Reddit
Paypal trust pilot everything so anyway
it is what it is take it for what it
sure it's going to cost you more money
it's going to cost you more time but at
the end of the day it's actually going
to cost you less so think of it that now
if you have any questions leave a
comment below I'm here to answer them
and help you out if you enjoy the video
like it share it tell the people about
it thank you very much